the United States and doing nothing for
us man we busted I asked we went over
there to an army to kill and the 99
percent of us got killed and we didn't
get nothing for it may give us a piece
of paper that says to us will fear Nam
veteran and we can get disability and we
can get this and we can get a job and we
have got welcome the war in Vietnam is
over and the junkies are coming home
angry and scared and strung out in New
York City there are 300,000 Vietnam era
veterans and 40,000 of them are addicts
most of them began using heroin
barbiturates and amphetamines in Vietnam
and most of them came home with less
than honorable drug-related discharges
these GIS are ineligible for veterans
educational home loan and employment
benefits they get no long-term VA
medical or psychological treatment for
their addiction they're offered only
methadone a numbing drug with with some
men can function and others can
[Music]
I went to Vietnam September of 1969 and
during the time that i was there i went
to certain experiences that led me into
using drugs and one of the experiences
that we call was during a night ambush I
killed that 12 year old kid you know it
was something that I couldn't handle at
that time you know seeing him dead
laying on the ground the next morning it
really stayed on my mind so I started
using drugs and I kept that up until I
came back to the states when I used to
do buddy have fear that was the whole
thing about it to keep myself going
through the day in combat I would get
high I would be under the influence of
some type of drugs and I wouldn't I
wouldn't feel fear but after coming down
from the drugs I would stop feeling fear
and that's when I would go back to get
high again I didn't want to really be
there I was afraid I was lonely
homesick I wanted to be home most of all
afraid I was even afraid of returning
home at one time because of my addiction
I was thinking of how am I gonna get my
fix when I arrived to the States even
though i did receive the Silver Star and
Bronze Stars medals from Bala I didn't
know I was no hero how were you treated
ah by the military and by society very
bad opportunities i did have I didn't
have any job I couldn't find one
treatment programs they didn't exist
method on I didn't want to get into
method on because I was just another
clutch another drug what that make you
feel like all that rejection like I was
back in the norm the Veterans
Administration offers the addicted vet
no rehabilitation for retraining just a
six-week methadone detoxification
program in a VA hospital or indefinite
outpatient methadone maintenance and
while methadone may kill the need for
heroin it's more addictive than heroin
and the VA treats only 988 men New York
City treats four thousand more with
methadone with two thousand on waiting
lists but that leaves 35,000 addicted
Vietnam veterans without treatment the
cities welfare department has
responsibility for providing public
assistance for 6,000 Vietnam vets many
of whom are addicts as early as 3 every
morning the vets begin lining up outside
the understaffed veterans welfare Center
on eighth Avenue the glass doors of the
center have been replaced with steel
they were destroyed early this winter by
vets battering against them to get in
well I tell you what I wasn't here for
god I just got here about 805 so how
come you up at the front of the line
you're gonna try and pull your way in
here i am i'm going in when the crowd
goes in
that's not fair to I fed your brother's
online though is it yeah only the strong
survive it's a dog-eat-dog world out
here you gotta believe it well in his
last right and that's no lie but I push
your head of them huh watch me watch me
watch me they made us kind of muscle why
not act like and be more until we get
out checking someone out of there then
when you review
that was a situation more than two
months ago and although Robert Carroll
director of community affairs for the
department promised in a statement on
december six 1972 that within one month
the bets would be in and out of the cold
now two and a half months later the men
are still freezing you can see you can
see right now we standing out here in
the cold from dudes be here from like
you got to get here at three o'clock in
the morning it's five below zero like
that don't make no sense see when you
when you in the front line and welfare
is just like being a Vietnam freeze your
hair so that's the last thing still
gonna fight you gotta fight actually you
don't because when I came down here on
the 19 of last month to go upstairs pick
up my check that it was on the third
floor then I'd my regular floor when I
went up there to lady called me a [ __ ]
I had often a mouth you did my check I
went to all telephone company for jobs
and like it's helping you don't have
enough education to do the job your
wrinkle y'all school is not high enough
but my school was high enough to do
three years in Nam but it's not high
enough to connect the line and telephone
building if I could get me a job where I
could be my own man that makes me think
that they feeling sorry for me give me
this give me what I need this like a pet
like a dog you don't like give him hindi
eat you have to be fed now giving us
some food you know anybody make people
start out on the line you understand and
wait you understand we instill when I
got my fingers blowing away the numbers
there wasn't no wait you understand why
me how I feel about America well I tell
you what [ __ ] this is I was born here
you understand I was born here yes I
live this is my home nothing I feel all
right about it but I say treat a person
like they supposed to be treated yes
little like a human being acting on his
own Alfonso you Cano director of the
veterans
welfare Center invited channel 13 to
film inside but the following day he
told us he'd spoken with mr. Carroll and
that carol had told him to withdraw his
invitation when we arrived to film the
next morning mr. you Cano met us at the
door you invited all the naughty
knocking by job you invited excuse me to
please take your hand away pack it up no
pieces you invited anybody nothing
bachem you did invite me and I can tell
me I'm sorry did you speak to mr. K you
invited me I did not walk in the comment
what's going on in there that we can
inside the center the vets wait and wait
the Vietnam vets plus 10,000 from other
Wars a total of sixteen thousand have
just 55 workers in this one building to
help them they come back day after day
and if you're an addict and take your
methadone and addicted veterans must
take methadone to receive welfare you
get a check every two weeks for eighty
dollars veterans with drug-related
discharges receive no unemployment
insurance jobs are so hard to find that
75,000 or twenty-five percent of the
Vietnam vets in New York or without them
and every veteran discharged with a
history of drug abuse has special
program number 384 a code for drug abuse
permanently affixed to his records
information which is freely available to
the public and employers
[Music]
lately Times Square has become a place
where addicted Vietnam vets hang out
they sit in the bars stand in doorways
you can find them here every night of
the week strung out in the cold neon on
heroin methadone cheap wine they buy and
sell drugs even hustle their own bodies
for the price of getting high grants is
a favorite spot and very quickly the
transition from war hero to junkie takes
place somebody your eye on right now I'm
my omentum what I methadone doing for
you is it helping you getting me high
getting behind that's all I got hook and
get nine you know with with drugs so
then I thought I came from over there
you know they told me well you have to
go through soon a application anything
so you know I couldn't get any job
somewhere so i went to the warfare
center and they told me is you need her
you have to do is this you have to get
into a metal program and I did if you
don't get invited on program you will be
able to get help and I told them that
means that all to get hook into a metal
on when I was looking on dope already in
Vietnam for me to kill her dr. Mendelson
wet those are the roots so I said to
myself I told me you know that's what I
said to myself that's very funny watch
you like a hawk Oh metal on you know I
would like to know I'll always help
am i angry sure I'm angry why shouldn't
I be angry I was born and raised in the
United States I'm a party rican in this
way I will tell you that I me Puerto
Rico is an independent country and we
came here and we went to fight for the
United States and Videl phone why can't
we have the same benefits that the
United States people have if we can
fight for them why can't they fight for
us Vietnam better when I went for a job
and they sent me to the state employment
agency you know what they told me well I
see you have a minor infraction here for
public intoxication while driving a
motor vehicle so I said what that mean I
did three tours over there to voluntary
tools you didn't send on about that low
infraction when I was over there
fighting and killing people the majority
of my friends from our Brownsville
hollowman memphis-style some of them
some of them don't have no mother
[ __ ] waste from down to up someone
can't see someone majeste shell-shocked
you dig it out lucky I got a
[ __ ] a chinese-made rifle
bullet in my [ __ ] foot make me
feel like I want to kill every
[ __ ] who made me go over there
every every [ __ ] who said I had
to go that goes from the [ __ ]
put the stamp on the letter will send me
to token to the [ __ ] Buster
took me to Fort Dix every single one of
their mother [ __ ] that's I in the
South Bronx a state-funded program
called sera service for education and
rehabilitation and addiction has been
working with returning addicted vets at
the DMZ or drug mending zone the vets
most of whom have been through the same
experiences and share the same problems
try and get each other sometimes harshly
to open up one addicted veteran returned
home to find that his wife had left him
and when I got there she wasn't dead
so my father-in-law was there with the
kids so I asked the way she had so he
tells me she's up in New Jersey with
some other guy yeah I'm saying that did
that [ __ ] to me because we were just
beginning to start another you know like
a new relationship between me and some
kind of understanding which we never got
from Jump Street your lady's shagging up
with somebody else she's in bed with
somebody else your best friend's
probably wearing your pajamas right now
you know so [ __ ] it let them enjoy
himself you in Georgia so what happens
to you now now you keep dwelling on it
you split from here behind there you go
shoot dope behind it or you just going
to learn to deal with [ __ ] like that
like you're at the [ __ ] door but you
don't want to open it here's your one
[ __ ] up cat and I've been watching but
last four [ __ ] days man all this
[ __ ] you've been going through
you've got a lot of [ __ ] in your [ __ ]
belly and all you want to do is sit on
it I want you to [ __ ] relate to it
max how does [ __ ] that make you feel
that's what the [ __ ] we want to know
what are you [ __ ] feelings max you're
[ __ ] old lady is out there [ __ ]
some other dude Max and I want to know
what the [ __ ] that does to you I want to
hit old [ __ ] I tried talking uh no
man oh just pick up and smack them on
why would you pick up his men what are
the feelings max the feelings the
feelings
feeling that did I can't explain she
found somebody else how do you feel
don't you tell you can't feel nothing
she's [ __ ] somebody of how you feel
about it plenty man wait I tell you to
[ __ ] though feeling type of feeling that
I just want to get her in my hands man
Choko poor [ __ ] eyes out well we
understand put my [ __ ] head
just grab him and just mutilate her with
the [ __ ] think I don't mother he woke up
man jam if you're gonna be my wife
you're gonna be my wife when I [ __ ] you
[ __ ] somebody else you said they're
talking about it you're gonna do later
you know but what about you how the [ __ ]
do you feel about it aren't you try to
get you in a position where you can get
that [ __ ] out and you just stuffed it
off and tell them about you want to tear
her head off her shoulders but what what
is that going to do the math is that
going to give you the satisfaction you
need you know is that going to get you
to function is that gonna make you a
better man you don't think that lemon
scent of garden here don't get feeling
like that man for women are concerned if
I've been hurt by people all the goddamn
time you don't think of my man sitting
right here twice your [ __ ] age has it
been getting tired of getting hurt and
you 20 something years old and you can
continue to people kick your head you
said I said I don't feel like saying
nothing who the [ __ ] you heard now what
are you going to do man wouldn't make
you feel no better if you could get your
hands on you know because I here's a
woman you love man was out there [ __ ]
somebody asking you is how that make you
feel how make you feel now what you want
to do it huh that's not gonna make it no
[ __ ] better hear that you can happen
you know I like running well no max
nozzle
max what is the feeling man what is the
feeling she got the whole [ __ ] thing
about Max just putting [ __ ] can the
top on it with math and fuses of that
the [ __ ] top off give yourself a
chance shoulder brother where you at
right well a little trucking trust is
right you punk out you gonna have time
to [ __ ] 30 right expect you to reach
in your [ __ ] belly and pull out a
[ __ ] war nothing i'm talking about
how to [ __ ] you feel about he'll [ __ ]
yourself you guys not accepting max
accepted she's not your woman see the
community board she's anybody willing
that except that she is not your woman
says she's not your woman mac she is not
josh here any man that can have a mac
she is not yours accept the fact that
you don't have a woman you got to help
yourself max you got to help yourself
help yourself max start helping yourself
max help yourself Mack start up in South
max she will love yourself max I got
yourself Malzahn [ __ ] yourself my love
you're gonna split maxi hey Mac help
yourself [ __ ] off she's out the street
she ain't worth it no more you're here
man help yourself how much max it's a
lot how much make me feel how much you
heard hurts a lot I can't feel that max
I can't [ __ ] feel that hurts a lot I
can't feel it hurts a lot I can't feel
it her to LA I can't max I can't feel it
it hurts a lot it hurts Allah